Yes, greetings to all viewers of the
program. The delegation is currently visiting the
northern and southern parts of the commune of Det Ban, Quang Nam province.
Now, we would like to invite you to join us
as we visit and ask about the
house of Ms.
Thang. The house is
very
simple and rustic, that's all. [Music] ...
As for Tram, when we came inside,
we were told that the house was very wet.
So we had to neatly stack all the items
on a platform, and the platform had to be at least
20 centimeters high to ensure safety. Only
waterproof items could be placed
on the ground. You can see
that the situation here, the
circumstances that the people of
China in general, and
my mother's family in particular, have had to endure
over the
past two years, have been very difficult and challenging. According to
updated information, it
seems that the
flooding has never been as severe as
this year. Now, while we wait for my mother, let's take
a moment to look at
her house so we can better understand what
her life has been like.
Now, going outside, we
see that
it's
not very tidy after the
recent storm; everything is still very messy
and disorganized. The
makeshift shelter is quite simple.  The house
looks very simple, the house
is old and dilapidated, just
a single-story house, it's been a very long time.
Now, the moss on the bank is
very noticeable, reflecting the passage of time. The
wind here is very strong, it's expected
that the 12th lunar month will
bring some influence, so there will be a bit of
wind and rain these days,
affecting the lives of the people.
Yes, and now we will
go inside the house to have a
conversation with the heroic Vietnamese mother, Ms.
Thang. Please welcome, dear
ladies and gentlemen. How old are you, mother?
12 years old. How
long have you been ill, mother?
That means all your daily activities are
completely taken care of by me. We don't
want to know
about the sacrifices you've made, how
many children have sacrificed themselves, and what you are like.
Mother, I take care of you, I
give you the
fruit, I
give you the bird, Mr. B, Mr. B, I
have a disease, I have three
children, five sons have passed away.
Two people are sick, and three others are
pregnant. Yes, today we are
from the Golden Chrysanthemum Club of Ba
Vang Pagoda. I'm sure you're all familiar with Ba Vang Pagoda,
and I'm
sure you're all quite familiar with it.
So today, our group is heading to
Central Vietnam, where the region is suffering from the pandemic, and we're also
heading to the
mothers there. Today, the whole group is visiting, and we
only have a small gift, a token of our
support. It's some medicine, milk, and 5 million
VND to send to our mothers. It's a token of the
heart from the North to the Central region, and a token of the heart from the
younger generation to the
older generation, our
mothers. Honestly, now that we're
visiting, our mothers don't know anything anymore.
So we're sending
our
heartfelt support, and we're also relying on you, sister, for your kind care. You're our children.
But actually,
we are Buddhists.
Before, we read about heroes,
martyrs, and all sorts of things, and we felt
grateful. But when we studied
Buddhism...
When practicing Buddhism, one focuses more on spirituality
and the mind than on the principles of the Dharma. Only then can one
truly awaken the heart and
awaken the true path of morality. That's why
every year we still organize
visits to offer our condolences. So today,
we arrived in Central Vietnam to visit
mothers, and during this trip,
we experienced
many emotions. When we arrived, we saw
mothers and their children, meaning some mothers
and their husbands were hiding in bunkers. Then they were
exposed, captured, and killed right
in front of their houses. And
yet, the mothers continued to support their children,
continuing the sacrifices.
We also have these thoughts: we, and
future generations, have not yet
sacrificed anything, have we? Like
us, we don't know
what we have sacrificed. If you say we sacrificed our husbands, we sacrificed
our husbands. We even sacrificed our
children, the people we love so much—our children
too.  Seeing
one child leave, then another, and on the day of
their farewell, we heard a
song that said, "The day of sending a child off is like saying
goodbye forever, with no
return." We heard the song, and
we, as the younger generation, felt a sense of relief. But
when we met the mothers, we
truly understood the immense suffering they had endured. They
swallowed their tears, the pain of
hearing bombs or
gunfire. It was incredibly
difficult for them to bear it, incredibly hard to
cope.
Like me, I'm at home. My parents might have had their ups and downs,
but no
matter what, I still have
the love for my mother. As for us, we may be
outsiders in the outside world, but when it comes to
gratitude, we are not
outsiders. Because of them, we have been able
to provide for the peace and safety of our children and grandchildren.
It's all thanks to the
blood and sacrifices of our ancestors.
If it weren't for our ancestors who shed their
blood, our children would
n't be safe and
sound today. That's why, from the bottom of our
hearts,
we have very deep feelings of
gratitude towards
our mother, and also towards our
brothers and sisters who take care of her. We are
very grateful because,
like us, we are family, and we
are close to our parents. It's true that we are
a little far from our children. Or if the children have a
fever or are sick, it hurts so much.
I've experienced this before,
when my son had a high fever, it was so intense. My nephew is still so
young, so very
young. If I have committed any crime, I will take the blame for him. If there is a disease, let me take the medicine for him. That's the
feeling in my heart.
I can sacrifice myself for my children.
Mothers are the same. They sacrifice their
whole lives for their children, for the people,
for the country. They think about
independence, they think about a future generation that will be
free, happy, and not suffer.
They can make the decision to
sacrifice their children. This is a
huge act of kindness,
beyond words. If
someone were to encourage us to
let our children die
for others, would we listen? We would
n't listen. So, it's a truth,
a truth that these mothers are truly
heroic mothers. They are
heroic mothers, something our generation hasn't
achieved yet.
But perhaps,
if we were in that situation, Vietnamese people
would do the same. Here, the
mothers are
truly suffering,
very lonely, with only the daughters-in-law, and
they are also taking turns guarding the children.  We, your children, are
very grateful and
wish you good health. Please bear with us.
Yes, we are children from the
North, and we
can only send our regards. That's all. We
understand each other's feelings, and we hope you
are very healthy so you can take care of
us. We don't know what else to say,
but since you're sick like this,
we, your children, also want to sing
a song. Although you can't feel
much, this is our heartfelt wish to sing
a song for you, Mom. Yes, let's
sing a song for you, Mom, when you
don't
know. Yes, we would like to sing the song "The Soldier's Uniform of
Yesteryear" to offer
to you and your family.
That uniform, I have always worn it
to remember the day we returned to Ha
Bac to fight and make a name for ourselves,
adding to the memories of our mothers who stayed up all
night
[music].
And that uniform, I have always cherished more than
rice, the poor mother in her tattered uniform,
loving her children who went to
war, following her with all
her love, that's how we
went.  Suddenly, when
I remember the home front, the road seems
long, but my legs are stronger, and
this heart is filled with
love for all. Mother and I will
share the
horizons of life.
[Music]
We love you so much, Mother. We love you so much.
We love you
so much.
On behalf of the
Women's Union of the North and South Ward, I
would like to express my sincere gratitude to the
Quang Nam Provincial Women's Union, the
Dien Bang Town Women's Union, and all the
Buddhist followers of Ba Vang Pagoda who
visited and gave gifts to Mother Minh Hung Nguyen
Thi. Once again, on
behalf of the local community and
family, I would like to thank everyone. I wish
our group good health and
safe travels.
Thank you to the sisters who are far away, but surely
here, the family also receives the
visits, support, and care
from the Women's Union. I would
also
like to convey a little love from the Women's Union
every time they visit to care for Mother.  For those sisters who
don't have the means, but surely those with good
hearts,
we send our best wishes. For the
older generation, you are truly very far away, so very
distant. Perhaps we will only visit once, and
then, after we
pass on to the other world, we
won't be able to visit again. So, we send our best wishes
to the women here
and our families. And we
ask permission to continue our
journey.
Oh, Mother, you can't hear us. Yes, we
ask permission. Yes,
I can't hear you, but we still send our best wishes. We say
goodbye, Mother. Yes,
we only know how to send our best wishes.
Mother, you don't
know anything anymore. Mother, you don't hear us,
so we ask permission to pray to the Ten
Directions of Buddhas to bless you so that
you may experience much happiness. That is, so that
you may have that spiritual awareness.
Yes, so you have that
spiritual awareness. Yes, we pray for the blessings of the Three Jewels and the
Buddhas to bless you so that you may reach the next stage.  When a mother
has a peaceful passing,
she will pass away peacefully.
Yes, and for the rest of her life, she will be healthy.
Yes, because we
follow Buddhism, so it is
very important to us to live healthily
and to pass away peacefully to be with Buddha.
We wish the whole family
happiness.
[Music]
We're leaving now. Yes, ladies
and gentlemen, we just had
a small conversation with our mother.
Through this conversation, we see
that the circumstances, the sacrifices and
losses that our mother and family have made for us are
immense, aren't they?
And through this, we can
awaken our gratitude and appreciation
for the heroic Vietnamese mothers, the heroes who
sacrificed
their blood and sweat for the independence of
our nation today. And in
this program, there will continue to be many
more meaningful activities to show our gratitude
and share our feelings.  The difficulties
will be discussed in the following chapters.
Now, goodbye and see you again.